Release Notes Grailsflow 0.2
-----------------------------

The following new features and improvements were done in release Grailsflow-0.2:

1. Process Definition:

    * Integrated Builder for Processes
    * Added Graphic Editor and Graphic Process Flow
    * Changed structure for the process definition scripts
    * Added new editor for the process transitions
    * Modified the definition of start and end nodes for the process
    * Changed due dates representation for Process Editor


2. User Defined Forms and Controllers:

    * Added mechanism for adding Manual pages, Controllers, Multi-step pages


3. Worklist Management

    * Enhanced 'Show Worklist' menu item functionality
    * Changed starting procedure for processes with start interactive node


4. Process Manager/Runtime

    * Enhanced mechanism of sending events to the nodes


5. Reports and Process Analysis

    * Added admin menu item - Analyze Response Time


Process Definition
--------------------

1. Integrated Builder for Processes

A Builder class for Processes was implemented. This class allows to build process classes
from process definition scripts and adds necessary fields and methods to the classes
dynamically using Grails ExpandoMetaClass class. Using Builders, the process definition
script has become shorter and more elegant. The Process Builder also knows how to execute
nodes actions (and has a simple implementation for supporting customer actions).

2. Added Graphic Editor and Graphic for Process Flow

'List Processes' menu item contains links 'Graphic' for every started process.  The link
opens a new pop-up window with a graphics representing the process. All nodes are
presented as colored blocks; all transitions are displayed as connector lines. For the
process definition (Process Editor) user has a button 'Show Process Script'. The button
opens a pup-up window with the process definition displayed in a graphical view. All
graphics are built using the Draw2D JavaScript library.

3. Changed structure for process definition scripts

Using Builders, the process definition is now shorter and easier to understand. The Node
definition of the process script has is a closure, which is used by the builder to create
and execute process classes dynamically. For this realization we tried to be similar to
the Grails class FlowBuilder, which had appeared in Grails-0.6 for Flow definitions.
Currently we don't need any more complex static fields for the process definition,
everything became evident and simple.

4. Added new editor for process transitions

The Process Transition Editor was changed to become more convenient. Currently the
transition can be defined for a process node. According to the node type, it's possible to
 define the transition to several nodes.

5. Modified the definition of start and end nodes for the process

In previous version of Grailsflow (Grailsflow-0.1) user had possibility to define the knot
type for node: mark node as start or as final. Currently the start and final nodes are
defined in other way: in case of node that have not incoming nodes and has only outgoing
nodes so this node is a start node, and if the node has only incoming nodes - this node is
 a final one.

6. Changed Due Dates representation for Process Editor

The 'due date' field for the Process Node Editor has a new representation. Now it became
possible to define 'life time' value for node in days, hours and minutes.


User Defined Forms and Controllers
-----------------------------------

1. Added mechanism for adding Manual pages, Controllers, Multi-step pages

GrailsFlow 0.2 allows to add manually defined pages for interactive nodes (nodes with type
'Wait'). Also, we added the possibility to add custom controllers and web flows. Currently
the functionality to add custom controllers works only in development mode of Grailsflow
(because in implementation we simply copy created controller to 'controllers' folder and
in the development mode Grails rebuilds the application changes).


Worklist Management
---------------------

1. Enhanced 'Show Worklist' menu item functionality

When the user has interactive nodes for the started processes it's possible to select an
event and also to change variables values (for the editable variables).

2. Changed starting procedure for processes with start interactive node

Currently if the process has start node of interactive type, the user who start the
process can specify start values (there is a possibility to change default start values
for process variables) and select an event for starting. In this case the process starts
only in case of selecting an action (event), so if the user does not specify values and an
 event/action, no process will be started.

Process Manager/Runtime
------------------------

1. Enhanced mechanism of sending events to the nodes

The node activator job mechanism was enhanced, we solved problems with running fork/join
types of nodes. The job mechanism has become more flexible to work with interactive nodes.

Reports and Process Analysis
------------------------------

1. Added admin menu item - Analyze Response Time

'Analyze Response Time' menu item is used for analyzing response time of the executed
processes. The nodes of a specific process type can be sorted by minimum and maximum
execution time, by the average execution time, etc.