User's Guide
---------------

Grailsflow allows you to manage processes, their definitions and activities related to a
rocess. This user's guide describes some of the basic features of Grailsflow and how you
can use them.


1. Start Processes

Start by clicking the menu item 'Start Process' and review all available process
definitions. When you select a definition (or process type) you start a process of that
type.

After a process was started the 'Process Details' page with process flow information is
displayed. In case of 'Wait' start node (start node is "interactive") 'Start Node Details'
page is shown - this page gives possibility to change the default values for the available
process variables. After pressing an action (or event) button, the process started using
these variables values.


2. List Processes

'List Processes' menu item contains a list of started processes with their available
operations. When you click on a process, you see all details of the process, it's nodes
and their statuses. Also, it is possible to review a graphical representation of started
processes (visited nodes, untouched nodes, interactive nodes which are currently waiting
for user actions, etc.). The graphic shows all nodes of the selected process with their
statuses (marked by different colors). Any active process can be killed.


3. Show Worklist

'Show Worklist' menu item contains list of nodes that are waiting for user input. It is
possible to click on the node ID and see 'Node Details' page with information about
selected node. At 'Node Details' page it's also possible to review and change process
variables values and select an event, that get's sent to the node. Events and their names
can be seen as the name of the transition to another node. After the event has been sent
the 'Process Details' page is displayed.


4. Edit Process Types

'Edit Process Types' page show a list of available process definitions. This menue allows
to add, edit or delete process. On the 'Process Editor' page (when process type for edit
is selected) there are two tables:

    * the list of process variables definitions and
    * the list of process nodes definitions. For each node definition it's possible to
      review node transitions and edit them.



5. Edit Action

'Edit Actions' menu item has not been finished yet. We are still thinking about the way
process definition is created (using Grailsflow Process Editor) the process nodes contain
empty actions.


6. Anayze Response Time

Allows to analyze the response time of executed processes. GrailsFlow searches all process
nodes for a process type, determines the time used for each node, then checks for the
min., max. and average time and displays them on screen. The process type nodes can be
sorted by minimum and maximum execution time, by the average execution time, etc.